# MoRobAE Call for Participation

## Abstract

All around the world, the increasing size of the senior population combined with
small population growth brings a decline in the number of people of working age
who support the costs of the system, and a lack of resources to treat patients
and to provide quality care. Mobile robotics is one alternative to address these
issues, and is or has been addressed in large scale initiatives all around the
world, such as ENRICHME (ENabling Robot and assisted living environment for
Independent Care and Health Monitoring of the Elderly), RAMCIP (Robotic
Assistant for MCI Patients at home) and MARIO (Managing Active and healthy aging
with use of caRing servIce robots, Ireland), all three funded by the European
Union H2020 Program, 2015-2018, and VIGIL-Robot, funded by AGE-WELL Network of
Centres of Excellence in Canada Program). 
The goals of the workshop are to learn about such interdisciplinary initiatives,
what are the lessons learned, and reflect upon what is required to make these
robots move out of the labs into real applications. Issues regarding
user-centered design in a socially and economically responsible fashion are also
going to be addressed.

## Topics

We encourage researchers to submit their work to be presented at the workshop.
Contributions may address but are not limited to the following topics :


 * Telepresence robotics for remote assistance
 * Robot hardware and software design for seniors
 * Sensing capabilities required for seniors-robot interaction
 * Autonomous decision-making for robot assistants
 * User-centered robot design in a socially and economically responsible fashion
 * Qualitative and quantitative approaches for evaluating the experience and
 impact of robots with seniors
 * Outcomes of human-robot interaction pilot studies with seniors
 * Long-term autonomy and deployment
 * Robot communication and interaction design  

## Submission instructions

Interested authors can submit extended abstracts (2 pages) or papers (4 to
6 pages) to be presented in brief spotlight talks (2-3 min) or oral
presentations (12-15 min). The manuscripts should use the IEEE ICRA two-column
format.

All submissions will be peer-reviewed and selection will be based on their
originality, technical quality and clarity, and their relevance to the topic of
the workshop.

** Details about the submission process will be given soon **

